# String
Strings in Kotlin are represented by the type [`String`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin/-string/).

> On the JVM, an object of `String` type in UTF-16 encoding uses approximately 2 bytes per character.

Generally, a string value is a sequence of characters in double quotes (`"`):

Elements of a string are characters that you can access via the indexing operation: `s[i]`. You can iterate over these characters with a `for` loop:

```kotlin
for (c in str) {
    println(c)
}
```

## Strings inmutables

Strings are immutable. Once you initialize a string, you can't change its value or assign a new value to it. All operations that transform strings return their results in a new `String` object, leaving the original string unchanged:

```kotlin
val str = "abcd"​

// Creates and prints a new String object
println(str.uppercase())
// ABCD

// The original string remains the same
println(str) 
// abcd
```

## Concatenar strings

To concatenate strings, use the `+` operator. This also works for concatenating strings with values of other types, as long as the first element in the expression is a string:

```kotlin
val s = "abc" + 1
println(s + "def")
// abc1def    
```

> In most cases using [string templates](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/strings.html#string-templates) or [multiline strings](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/strings.html#multiline-strings) is preferable to string concatenation.


## String literals

Kotlin has two types of string literals:
### Escaped strings﻿[](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/strings.html#escaped-strings)

Escaped strings can contain escaped characters.  
Here's an example of an escaped string:

```kotlin
val s = "Hello, world!\n"
```

Escaping is done in the conventional way, with a backslash (`\`).  
See [Characters](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/characters.html) page for the list of supported escape sequences.

### Multiline strings﻿[](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/strings.html#multiline-strings)

Multiline strings can contain newlines and arbitrary text. It is delimited by a triple quote (`"""`), contains no escaping and can contain newlines and any other characters:

```kotlin
val text = """
    for (c in "foo")
        print(c)
"""
```

To remove leading whitespace from multiline strings, use the [`trimMargin()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.text/trim-margin.html) function:

```kotlin
val text = """
    |Tell me and I forget.
    |Teach me and I remember.
    |Involve me and I learn.
    |(Benjamin Franklin)
    """.trimMargin()
```

By default, a pipe symbol `|` is used as margin prefix, but you can choose another character and pass it as a parameter, like `trimMargin(">")`.#


## String templates﻿

String literals may contain template expressions – pieces of code that are evaluated and whose results are concatenated into a string. When a template expression is processed, Kotlin automatically calls the `.toString()` function on the expression's result to convert it into a string. A template expression starts with a dollar sign (`$`) and consists of either a variable name:

```kotlin
val i = 10
println("i = $i") 
// i = 10

val letters = listOf("a","b","c","d","e")
println("Letters: $letters") 
// Letters: [a, b, c, d, e]
```

or an expression in curly braces:

```kotlin
val s = "abc"
println("$s.length is ${s.length}") 
// abc.length is 3
```


## Sintaxis

```kotlin
val str = "abcd 123"
```